we're talking earlier about how comic
books influenced your book heart-shaped
box can you tell us about that yeah when
I was working on the first draft of
heart-shaped box I found myself
rereading all the alan moore Swamp
things and i had i had read them as a
kid not all of them but i never read
them straight through from a grown ups
with a grown-up's perspective and I just
I was just completely blown away by the
risks he was willing to take and what he
was willing to put that character
through you know I me swampy does it all
he you know he goes crazy he he grieves
he hates he murders he falls in love he
get he falls in love he gets laid you
know it's just he covers all the bases
and I kind of felt like it gave me
permission to do whatever I wanted to do
with the main character of heart-shaped
box and also also you know Alan Moore as
far as I know has hardly ever been out
of Northampton in England but he had a
vision of the South that was you know
Technicolor and grotesque and really
fascinating and in the course of my
story the hero winds up heading back to
his home town in Louisiana in my version
of Louisiana is Alan Moore's version of
Louisiana it's it's sort of that vision
and i sort of i sort of referenced it i
named the heroes hometown moore's corner
louisiana sort of as a reference to the
swamp thang thang so and what was your
inspiration for the book i mean it's a
fairly original idea man buys a
poltergeist a suit with a poltergeist
attached to it what was the impetus for
that no it's actually it's not it's not
that original it's out there it's being
done you know there's a very healthy
market in a cult objects online you know
just as the book was coming out I my
wife pointed me to a woman who was
selling a bracelet online that she said
was was possessed by the soul of a you
know of an angry which and my immediate
thought about that was you know not who
selling that but who would buy it you
know who wants to bring the soul of an
angry which into their house and you
know when i saw it just i think was just
a few months ago the government has this
auction site where they sell like you
know ICBM nuclear missile silos to like
anyone who wants to live in a missile
silo and they were selling a lighthouse
and in the
the report on the lighthouse you know
they mentioned you know it's a ceiling
needs work you know 100 year old
foundation haunted by a ghost you know
it's like very dry bureaucratic language
but it's in there and i kind of love
that tell us a little bit about lock and
key I'm a comic book fan from way back
and and I think that a lot of the best
writers in fantasy and science fiction
and horror our comic book writers first
and foremost or come out of that world
whether it's you know Alan Moore and you
know Neil Gaiman a steve niles or more
recently you know a writer like bryan
cave on who is you know bryan cave on is
probably you know the best writer his of
his generation I just I just I love that
form and and I had done a little I
dabbled in a little bit a few years ago
and but I really wanted to have the
chance to carry a series through across
a course of several issues and so that's
what we're doing you've won to braums
Stoker awards already and you're a
really young guy how does it feel to to
get these amazing prestigious awards so
early in your career well that's always
really cool I mean anyone gives you
something you're you know what that's
great but you know for me what's more
exciting is to have readers and and you
know and and to feel like when people
read the stories they're excited about
them and want more you know so that's
that's my turn on dimension films has
optioned your comic and that i see that
neil jordan is going to be doing
heart-shaped box and who do you see is
playing Judas coin in the movie um you
know I've all I don't really play the
casting game because I think that that
for the reader it's more fun for them to
imagine you know who they like as that
person you know to get to form their own
visual picture and I also think you know
someone like neil jordan if neil jordan
winds up doing the film you know he's
terrific alee talented cinematic
storyteller and and you know he's gonna
he's gonna find someone right for the
part so i don't play the casting game
you're not you know i can have any input
on it no no you know I spent two years
writing about Jude and Georgia and their
ghost problem and you know and I told my
version of the story and so now I think
that Neil Jordan has to go out and tell
some version of the story that he cares
about and that you know that excites him
you know and so the best thing I can do
is sort of stay out of the way and I
feel the same way about lock and key I
think it's tremendous
lock and key was optioned for film and I
think if it is a film if they decide to
make a franchise out of it that there's
some possibilities that there to do
something exciting you know but my goals
is right now is is to write some really
good comics you know we've got the first
six issues and it's Anna close story in
the fall lock and key is going to go
monthly and it's going to run monthly
for 24 issues and then the whole story
line and get wrapped up with a final
graphic novel and you know and that's
that's really my focus and someone else
can worry about the film tell us a
little bit about what lock and key is
all about lock and key is about three
kids a giant mansion called key house
and some very old keys which can unlock
a set of him pot doors into the
impossible and you know and magic keys
or old fairy tale stuff i mean that's
you know that kind of stuff is hundreds
hundreds of years old what fact the
doors in key house when they're unlocked
can transform the young you know if you
can change your race you can change your
sex you can find out what it's like to
be older and and to me i just i saw that
as an opportunity to write about you
know those formative years those
formative teenage years when you still
don't really know who you are and you
know when you're sort of trying on
different faces and and so that's one of
the things we're doing with lock and key
and then the other thing we're doing
with lock and key is you know is trying
to write it you know a 10 scary story
that will keep people coming back
there's a there's a villain in lock and
key a creature called dodge which is
sort of like Peter Pan gone horribly
wrong and and you know dodge
takes the Lost Boys of the world makes
them bad and and dodge is fun to write
about and by the end of the first six
issues dodge is already working on his
endgame to open a door that shouldn't be
opened so so I'm having fun with it
you